	She woke, and although it seemed to her that she had only just closed her eyes, she knew that she was waking from a decades-long journey. She knew that herself, the self she left behind, was long dead. Hopefully, she had lived a long, fulfilling life, but there was no way to know now. A momentary pang of loss and regret overcame her, but she had resolved to see this through, and there was no way back now.
	Opening her eyes and looking around, she inspected her new body. It was supposed to match the body she left behind perfectly, but all of her scars were gone; her teeth were all real, even the few that had been replaced by implants. Looking into the mirror in the pod that was bedroom, bathroom and kitchen, she noticed her nose was straight. She was expecting this, given that this body was created whole-cloth from her genetic code at a point in the journey that would have her arrival coincide with her new body's twenty-first birthday. It would have taken extra code, extra equipment to reproduce the subtle imperfections introduced during the first forty-eight years of her life; in her previous life she had cherished these markings of significant life events, but this was a new life, a new beginning.
	Her mission was to colonize a new planet, to bring humanity to a fresh world. To accomplish this, she and a team of the world's best and brightest had worked for more than twenty years to develop the technology necessary to tame a barren planet: interstellar space travel, vat-grown humans, digitizing consciousness. They had worked in utmost secrecy, knowing the potential for misuse of this technology; images of vat-grown armies marching through the streets flashed through her mind, but she shut them out. There was no way to know if they succeeded in keeping their advancements secret, and no way to do anything about it now if they hadn't.
	That was one of the tragic realities of her situation; the Earth she knew was far, far away, both in time and space. Everyone she knew was long dead, barring the misuse of the technology they had developed, and even if she wanted to try and phone home, it would take years for her message to get there, and years for a response to arrive, assuming there was anyone left who was interested in chatting.
	She was to start a new nation on this barren rock of a planet, one that would hopefully avoid as many of humanity's stumbling blocks and tragedies as possible. She had all the tools she needed in her landing craft, and all the raw material required was in the planet's regolith and atmosphere. She had the genetic code of a wide selection of humanity's various peoples, and when the colony was constructed and the conditions were right, she would create enough people to start a new society.
	Snapping out of her reverie, she remembered her first task: to compare the projected atmospheric and regolith composition against the projections she and her team had made from Earth. [ put science stuff here, make it mostly match projections but have it missing a key element ]
	That was a problem. Without [ key element ], the concrete would be too porous, and degrade too quickly. Luckily, the team had planned for a long list of contingencies, and this would only be a three year setback, minor in the scheme of things. Had everything matched the projections, the colony would have been able to be constructed in ten years; she had a deadline of twenty-one years to get the colony ready for the seed group of colonists, who were already now being grown in the craft's vats.
									# 
	The team had considered leaving this first step of colonization to an AI, but decided that their projections of the planet's elemental composition was not certain enough; they needed a human consciousness to oversee things, to make sure that the AI didn't wake the seed group of vat-grown colonists to an incomplete colony incapable of supporting them.
	Samara had volunteered, knowing the implications of her decision. She would be split in two; her mind copied onto sapphire-crystal memory, to be introduced to a vat-grown clone of herself upon the craft's arrival at [ the planet ]. She that stayed on Earth knew that she would never know what would happen to her double, would never know of their mission's success or failure. She knew that she was dooming her phantom to at least ten years of solitude, until the colony was ready and she would be able to hibernate until the colonists were ready and grown. She knew, however, that this second /her/ would wake up at age twenty-one, having an extra twenty-seven years of life (minus time spent hibernating, waiting for colonists to grow).
	Before the mind-copy procedure, she made sure that she felt completely ready for the split; she couldn't know whether she would wake up in an hour, on Earth, or in thirty-two years, on [ planet ].
	She thought she was ready, that she would be able to get to work immediately, but there had been a part of her back on Earth that knew that she, the Samara who would stay, would wake up and continue her life, participating in the rest of the Earth-based portion of the project. She who had woken up on this barren rock had to try and put that portion of herself away; she was here, and there was no point in wondering about what the rest of her lifetime on Earth.
	Volunteering to be the human overseer of the colony made sense to Samara. She didn't have many close relationships; her parents had been dead for eight years, she never had any romantic relationships lasting longer than a few months, and she had spent so much time on the project in the last ten years of her pre-split life that she didn't have any close friends anymore. Isolation never bothered her much, having spent her undergrad avoiding parties, and her PhD without to time to attend them. It helped that she had the respect of her colleagues, too; she would be acting as a mother to the first generation of people on this new world, people that included but were not limited to clones of members of the team.
	The colonists would wake fully physically mature at a body age of twenty-one, but digitizing the entire memory of one person was difficult and memory-consuming enough; the first colonists would wake with little more than a basic high-school education and the knowledge of their purpose in the colony. There were education and training programs, but it was difficult to directly integrate such knowledge into the clones before they woke; Samara would have to help them create a functioning society. 
	If she had any ethical misgivings about cloning herself, splitting her mind in two, and sending half of herself across the stars, she felt even worse about the seed group of colonists. Their digitized personalities would start off identical; the team couldn't spare any digital storage for more than one colonist archetype. Each had a different role in the colony, however, so each would have to come to terms with becoming different from all the other colonists as they came to become complete people. She wished that they had had time to do a test run, to grow and wake and teach a prototype colonist on Earth, but the political situation was only getting worse, and they decided they couldn't wait.
	This illustrated an unfortunate aspect of the mission; it was a series of compromises. They couldn't send more than one complete personality, they couldn't get any more accurate projections of the elemental composition of the planet and its atmosphere, and they had to choose a selection of humanity's art and culture to digitize and send along with Samara.
